Changelog/2026 06 26 (#5161)
neondatabase/website: content/changelog/2026-06-26.md

---
title: Agent skills for backend services, Lakebase Search GA, Postgres version updates, and more
---

## Agent skills for Neon Storage, Functions, and AI Gateway

[Neon Agent Skills](/docs/ai/agent-skills) are instruction files that teach AI coding assistants how to work with Neon. The collection now includes skills for [Neon Functions](/docs/compute/functions/overview), [Object Storage](/docs/storage/overview), and [AI Gateway](/docs/ai-gateway/overview), the backend services currently in **private preview**.

If you haven't requested preview access yet, sign up below and we'll send you the private preview guide to get started.

<RequestForm type="backend-platform" />

To install all Neon agent skills:

```bash
npx skills add neondatabase/agent-skills
```

For the complete list of skills and other install options, see the [Agent Skills documentation](/docs/ai/agent-skills).

## Lakebase Search is now available to all users

> [Lakebase Search](/docs/ai/lakebase-search) is out of private preview and available to all Neon users on Postgres 16+. Two extensions, [`lakebase_vector`](/docs/extensions/lakebase-vector) and [`lakebase_text`](/docs/extensions/lakebase-text), bring **vector**, **keyword**, and **hybrid** search into Postgres, so you can run semantic RAG, exact-term lookups, and combined rankings without a separate search stack.

Author: ```suggestion
[Lakebase Search](/docs/ai/lakebase-search) is now available to all Neon users on Postgres 16+. Two extensions, [`lakebase_vector`](/docs/extensions/lakebase-vector) and [`lakebase_text`](/docs/extensions/lakebase-text), bring **vector**, **keyword**, and **hybrid** search into Postgres, so you can run semantic RAG, exact-term lookups, and combined rankings without a separate search stack.
```

Setup is a few steps before `CREATE EXTENSION`: add `lakebase_vector` and `lakebase_text` to your project's [preload libraries](/docs/extensions/pg-extensions#extensions-with-preloaded-libraries), restart the compute, then install the extensions. The [get started guide](/docs/ai/lakebase-search-get-started) has the Neon API commands.

```sql

> -- 1. Confirm preload libraries are enabled (after API setup + compute restart)

Reviewer: Maybe make explicit what to look for. i.e.,

Confirm lakebase_vector and lakebase_test are included in preload libraries

Author: revised
